---
date: 2024-10-21
created: 2024-10-21 17:10
tags:
  - type/fleeting-note
link:
---
## Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA)
The **Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA)**, also known as the **[[Log Analytics agent]]**, is used to collect data from Windows and Linux machines and send it to [[Azure Monitor]] for analysis.[^1]  It's a crucial component for monitoring and managing your IT infrastructure, providing insights into performance, security, and compliance. [^1]

## Dependency Agent (DA)
The **Dependency Agent** is used in conjunction with Azure Monitor for VMs.[^2]  It collects data about processes running on the virtual machine and their external dependencies.[^2]  This data is used to create a map of the application's architecture, showing how different components interact with each other.[^2]

## Key Differences
* **Purpose:**
	* **MMA:** Collects a wide range of performance and operational data from machines.
	* **DA:** Focuses on collecting data about process dependencies and interactions.
* **Data Collection:**
	* **MMA:** Collects data from various sources, including performance counters, event logs, and custom logs.
	* **DA:** Collects data specifically about process dependencies and their interactions.
* **Usage:**
	* **MMA:** Used for general monitoring and management of IT infrastructure.
	* **DA:** Used for application dependency mapping and troubleshooting.
* **Integration:**
	* **MMA**: Integrates with Azure Monitor to provide comprehensives monitoring and analytics.
	* **DA:** Integrates with Azure Monitor for VMs to provide application dependency maps.



<!-- Footnotes -->
[^1]: [Log Analytics agent overview - Azure Monitor | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/agents/log-analytics-agent)
[^2]: [VM Insights Dependency Agent - Azure Monitor | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/vm/vminsights-dependency-agent-maintenance)